# Twitteranalysis

An important source of information presently is social media, which reports any major event including natural disasters. Social media also includes conversational data. As a result, the volume of data on social media is enormous. During the time of natural disaster like floods, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, etc., authorities require information about those stuck in harmful situations, so that relief operations like help, medical facilities can get to those trapped and save many lives. In this project we are going to use Geoparsing to identify the places of disaster on map. Geoparsing is the process of converting free-text descriptions of places (such as "twenty miles northeast of Jalalabad") into unambiguous geographic identifiers, such as geographic coordinates expressed as latitude-longitude. With the help of geographical coordinates, it can be mapped and entered into geographical information system. The location mentions in messages during disaster events are very crucial, as they can help emergency response teams to quickly identify the place to send rescue teams to the location. We consider the source of messages as Twitter because it is Realtime, robust and can handle large amounts of data. For knowing information on the natural disaster, tweets are extracted from twitter in real time to R-Studio environment and then NLP methods are applied on it to extract useful information from them like location. Further, it is useful to assess the severity of the natural disaster. Sentiment analysis of user tweets is useful for decision making. Once meaningful information is obtained the concerned authorities can use the data gathered to more effectively manage disasters.
